our future is I mean
nobody thought I'd be a mayor of a city
but I was nobody thought I'd be
electrical engineer but I am you know I
mean and I would I graduated here I mean
so it's possible for anybody to be
anything I mean
just vote Yes if you can thank you
next up Johnny Francis Cisco
and this isn't the first letter that
I've attempted to write to the board and
to the people I just never can express
fully how I want to say it
but I also just think that we really do
need to find this place that we can
start from but we can all agree
um a United goal United Mission and that
we can all hold that for our youth in
our community
as I see it it really should be around
the kids and not just some of the kids
that align with your values and your
virtues but all the kids
that everybody's family is different we
all align differently
do things need to change probably
there's always room for improvement
anywhere and in education and I have a
growth mindset and we really don't know
what's possible until we researched all
the possible solutions right
so if we start there what could be
possible for our school district and its
students what amazing things could be
available to them how can we find other
funding private money or levies
but we don't have that luxury today
and I would I would implore that the
board can explore and give to all of us
how you're going to support a five-year
strategic plan without funding we've
already approved the plan right so
we need to fund it
and then thinking about the kids that
are already in school the Juniors and
seniors who are already deeply in this
educational construct as it stands
they're not to blame for how we got here
how many years it took to get here
but we're gonna implode their system in
one day by not putting a levy on a
ballot
and not having a sustainable plan for
their future
and what about all those kids
in our community that almost 200 years
later are coming from parents and homes
where their parents cannot read and
write just like Abraham Lincoln
and if he wouldn't have been had it been
able to reach out to public education he
may not have been also the president of
the United States if he had not learned
to read and write
and I feel like if not putting the levy
on the ballot you are taking away a
right to vote like you're taking away a
right
all right next up uh Dana Douglas
Dina Douglas
um I've been a member of this community
for over 30 years I've volunteered in
West Varner County schools for over 20
years
my husband graduated from West Bonner
County both my kids have graduated West
Brunner County I currently don't have
any children but I have grandkids coming
up I still support the school and I
still support all of the youth in my
community that's what a Community member
does they support
um I'm here to ask you guys to run a
levy for our children of our community
um
everyone is coming from different areas
and everyone thinks they knows they know
what is best but every family is
different
not everyone can stay home and
homeschool their children
everyone needs a help and a hand every
once in a while and and our schools do
that in so many ways I also I I just
really want you guys to understand the
last time I came up here I talked about
our district and how big it was and so I
I researched and I got some information
so I want you to know that did you know
that West Monroe County has five schools
we have five schools in this District do
you understand that 21 bustle buses
travel an average of 1
124 miles each day these buses transfer
675 kids
sorry my phone
um
our district spends seven hundred
thousand dollars on Transportation but
guess what this state only gives us four
hundred thousand
so I those numbers are just real basic
so you can see so there's a three three
hundred thousand dollar shortfall so
where does that money come from
it comes from these levees that money
comes from these levees it it makes
sense you you can't you can't just say
we're not gonna fund what's gonna what's
not gonna be available for these kids
some it's not gonna work we need to show
our kids that they matter we need to all
come together and put all this grief
behind us and we need to support our
children of the community please vote
for the levy
next up is
Kat Katie is it curly yeah curly Carly
Carly
Carrillo thank you
[Music]
hi my name is Carly Carrillo I'm alumni
a pre-server business owner in town
currently I'm asking you the board to
run the levy for the Six Million Dollar
option Keith you spoke about how you
weren't going to put your name on
anything when we're looking at a twelve
thousand dollar per student cost well I
want to present you with some facts
about that first anyone home viewing
this that was a very rough number two
that was not a per student dollar value
that was had to include maintenance
other costs have nothing to do with
children
um if you're concerned about comparing
numbers to other districts which most
people are
um you can't compare our district to
surrounding area districts because of
how different smart mileage wise large
we are if you want to look at numbers
you should be looking at the mill rate
for people at home who don't know what
mill rate is it's equal for to one
dollar for every thousand dollar value
excess property value
so here are some facts in 2021 when we
passed our Levy
um Kellogg's Levy rate they pass four
dollars Lakeland 225 Lake Ponderay 210
boundary County 198 lastly us Bonner
County at a dollar forty seven we were
the lowest out of all the surrounding
areas why because we aren't asking for
new facilities we're asking for bare
minimum from our community to fund our
schools the new Levy rate with the 6
million would be a dollar 55 again the
lowest we're asking out of surrounding
areas
we are asking taxpayers for less money
than everyone else me personally you
can't put a number on student education
but factually that's the least it's a
fact that 92 out of 115 Idaho schools
have a supplemental Levy our district
isn't the problem it's the state funding
in fact 2006 the state funding mechanism
shifted the mandatory three dollars
again we were 1.50 seven per thousand
assessed value was removed and instead
school funding is Now supported by sales
tax meaning this Levy costs you less
money if they fully funded our school in
education so let's stop using that as an
excuse to not support our schools put
this Levy to a vote and support our kids
not your wallets
okay next up is
it Leanne James where's the dean James
James Dean James Dean
[Music]
I try to be a little
good evening
thank you board
um
I had a prepared talk
but having listened to the discussion
no one here doesn't like kids
I could elaborate on that but trust me
no one doesn't like kids
and education is not or should not be
have some dollar amount
it should be the quality of Education
and how well we're training kids to be
part of society
I I have intimate knowledge of a little
kid
who back in the 1950s went to a school
in the desert of Arizona that didn't
have air conditioning
they had what some people may be
familiar with swamp coolers
evaporative coolers the word evaporative
and cooler shouldn't be connected at all
there were no paid parking lots there
was an open irrigation ditch next to the
playground
the best two basketball courts were
outside and they were dirt
no pay I don't ask me what they put what
kind of Agent Orange they sprayed on
those to keep the weeds down
um
but the kids that went to that school
were taught
Basics they were taught what needed to
be taught
um there was a principle no vice
principal there were two administrative
individuals there was no counselor there
was a nurse
there was a physical education coach and
a and a maintenance guy
one one teacher per classroom
didn't hurt those kids up there
sorry I talked too long
Kathy Nash
giving you a copy just in case I happen
to go over my two units
because I want you to get the whole
message I'm not just part of it
Kathy Nash for the record
want to have a disclaimer
I wrote this earlier today I've learned
some other information so some of it may
be a little off but I'm hoping to be
accurate this district has a spending
problem for years the budget has always
been padded with extra wants and the
district has never had full
accountability for their spending people
throughout our state are tired of the
tax and spend mentality of the
government agencies which includes this
District we spend more per student than
any other District in the area yet we
have the smallest student population
which Yes means we get less from the
state than any other District therefore
we continue to put the difference on the
backs of the local community
before we saddle the community with the
levy there needs to be a forensic audit
of our books for a minimum of the last
five to ten years from credit card
spending to the moving around of funds
by journal entries the board has never
seen a true accounting of expenditures
with line items for matching the budgets
the policy for separation of Duties
requirements have never been met or even
strived for there are people here
tonight that don't want to Levy at all
we are all being told that without a
minimum of
7.4.7 million dollar Levy teachers will
quit buildings will be mothballed and
the education of the children will be at
rest this has been the threat for as
many levees as I have been following
these levies
what is wrong with trying to have a
reasonable budget and still serving the
kids a levy and may may not bring will
not bring this community into agreement
on how this is to be accomplished why
can't we delay a levy until November
where more answers and a real knowledge
of the amount needed yes it does run the
risk of Staff leaving at the end of this
school year but I believe those who are
truly doing this for the kids will
remain and help us with successful in
this journey
uh next is Nikki
narack
paddy whack hey so I didn't even know
that we got to talk tonight so I am here
and I did not type something up but I am
here as a community member as a mom as
somebody who went to school and started
kindergarten in Mrs nakarado's class
before she was even married
powder again in second year and then got
to do some student teaching with her as
well and I now currently have been
teaching preschool in my own program for
20 years even though I'm still only 20
years old I do have to say that kids are
my absolute life I have three of my own
that go to school and attend school in
the West Bonner County School District
and I chose to raise my family here in
this town because I wanted to give them
everything that I had had growing up I
was able to attend school get a great
education go to college on scholarships
that this community helped me be able to
get and I didn't pay one dime for
college because I worked hard and I was
given a great education and teachers who
loved me and cared for me and I want my
kids to have the same thing and part of
that is to support our teachers our
Educators these buildings and this
community with a levy we need a levy and
I ask of you guys to please
please take into consideration
everything not just the kids the
community yourselves all of it please we
ask of thee today
please run a levy thank you
Cassie Anderson
it's gonna say she has two names
hi everyone I'm Cassie Anderson I'm
newer to the community so I'll have a
different perspective but
um I have two boys that are in the West
Bonner County School District and one
that goes to daycare soon to be in
preschool
um and we love it up here we grew up in
Hayden we moved up here because it's
beautiful right it kept growing down
there and all these needs kept changing
and all this craze right but we love the
community piece so we wanted to be able
to have that impact within our own
Community as well so with that coming up
here I got my taxes this last year right
and I could not believe that it was only
two hundred dollars a little less than
200 for our school taxes like it was
astronomical I actually called the
school and asked and you remember that I
called yeah I was like is that accurate
because that's ridiculous we should be
paying more for our kids they need more
they deserve more and coming from a
district that still didn't get by didn't
have enough at all in the Coeur d'Alene
area and coming up here you know I see
the need and they're left have you just
failed and now look at what's happening
there's possibility of sports being cut
mental health I'm a social worker I've
looked at coming to work for the Bonner
County School District because I want to
be integrated in our community but a big
problem with that is I need to make sure
I have a job because I have to support
my kids too right so with that the levy
can help I am completely supportive of
the levy I've come from where it's
passed numerous times and been very
helpful and I would encourage everyone
to just think about that and hope to
bring more people to our community that
want to give back and grow our community
as we raise our children so thank you
okay
that's all the public comments I have
sheets for so
public time is closed
next up on the agenda I need a motion to
bring to the table establish long-term
planning committee I will make a motion
to establish long-term planning
committee junior high school facility
solutions to the table okay no we made
we made this
makes a motion to bring this uh
discussion to the table
Vice chair um Brown second
and I think as we've talked before it
and it's this will allow potentially the
opportunity to talk about junior high
school facility Solutions we know that
it's it's got a lot of issues and I
think Ken was maybe going to say
something about it
uh good evening Ken Elder I'm the
director of facilities for the school
district working with the board through
this short-term funding process for the
maintenance and operations Levy
we have identified the need for
improvements at Priest River junior high
school and Facilities throughout the
school district and there's been a lot
of conversations recently about what
those Solutions are and I can say
officially from the school district
standpoint
um we we do not have a plan for uh
making those Capital Improvements at
this time what we want to do is start
this Capital Improvement planning
committee that's going to be Community
Based that we can work through all of
the different trustee zones so we get
good representation across our entire
West Bonner County School District and
together through the course of the
summer start to identify all of the
different aspects of what those facility
improvements would be would look like
different options so that we have a
school district organization that is
working in tandem with what the
community wants to see as far as
outcomes we're very serious about moving
forward on that this summer I look
forward to working with you to bring
about some very very positive changes to
our school facilities so please stay
tuned we will be initiating that uh
before the school year is out thank you
okay
I wanted to point out that this is
directly under the Strategic plan and
the facilities pillar that we are trying
to adhere to that and move that forward
so do you need them we need an official
motion what we're going to do is vote on
it now okay all those in favor of
establishing a long-term planning
committee for the junior high school
facility Solutions say hi hi those
opposed okay the motion carries uh next
on the docket is a consideration and
approval of the May 16th Levy ballot
resolution do I have a motion I'll make
a motion to bring the consideration
approval of the May 16th Levy ballot
resolution to the table trustee trustee
Hall makes a motion uh trustee Barton
seconds
any comments
I'm like I guess Stephie is there any
more I don't know if since this is the
official meeting time I think we still
need to finalize and look at the numbers
and finalize those numbers
with the public we need to kind of
finalize what we're looking at and what
the options that we that the other
options that we looked at just so that
we can make a motion
we can make a motion correctly
it's I guess
um
I guess we there were actually three
options that we've been looking at yes
um and maybe Stephie would you go and I
guess can I may I ask Debbie to put a
little bit more information so that the
rest of the public who might not have
been here even through all our work
sessions are familiar with what we just
saw the board went through a series of
nine work sessions and
through those nine work sessions the
board looked up a little harder please
oh sorry bring on my
something voice okay so they're outdoor
voice thank you so we have we the board
went through a series of nine work
sessions starting with identifying the
needs as they are aligned with in the
five-year strategic plan or the school
district's business plan uh from there
the board identified like I said those
needs and in this
Excel document uh there was option one
two and three as directed by the board
the body here
uh went through the needs of the that
that the board had identified starting
with Athletics co-curricular and
extracurricular activities the board
heard a proposal
and then identified that in order to
fully fund the components of that
proposal that it would take this dollar
amount moving down to the SRO officer
likewise
and then the salaries and benefits of
the board
the board provided direction that on the
classified salary schedule which which
can be located on the West Bonner County
School District website needed to be
increased that base salary needed to be
increased to 15 and in order to increase
That Base it would represent
approximately a 17.5 percent increase
and so that equates after taking into
consideration additional State funding a
shortfall of 1.6
I was certified
State legislation came through that
there would need to be an infusion of
the base of approximately 6 359 dollars
carrying that base through our
classified our certified salary schedule
equates to this amount for our shortfall
likewise with admin then the board
collapsed
those line items to provide this total
um
teaching and learning the board received
a series of emails
aligning each one of the current
shortfalls as provided for the funding
provided for from the levy
and started with pillar one pillar two
pillar three pillar four pillar five and
pillar six and identified that in order
to carry out the
current teaching learning and textbooks
materials staff training that it would
be a minimum of six hundred thousand
um
we heard a presentation from our
facility director asking for a minimum
of 366 thousand dollars and our
transportation director asking for the
replacement of one bus a year which
would be a bus acquisition of
approximately a hundred and twenty
thousand dollars the board identified
these amounts and then went to looking
at the levy rates
or if Levy total amount so the net net
taxable value of the district that's a
given that's taken off of our
a property assessment provided by the
county and this this amount is
reflecting the December
2022 amount
so the board gave Direction and said
that with these items
um
that they would like to see what it
would look like if it was funded for 1.7
million dollars
based upon this net taxable value of our
district property it equates to this
rate or per hundred thousand dollars
would be 115.
0.95 so 115
.95
um
and Steffy that one please and that one
indicates a 1.4
um
million plus dollar the shortfall
correct correct and through the series
of work sessions we've been able to
identify
um in a in detail where that amount is
but in terms of where those cuts would
be felt it's a little bit harder to
identify because those decisions have
not been made
um
so then the last work session so the
option two was using the rate from our
approved 2021 Levy to generate our
annual Levy amount and identified the uh
the descriptions there or the body
and then the board entertained the idea
for option three of what would it cost
and what would it look like if the
school district did not have to make any
cuts for this projected
2024 fiscal year
so then that brings us back to the I
guess up to the last board work session
which was started at four o'clock today
where there was Direction provided
that the board
direction from the board was that maybe
we need to consider reducing that
shortfall amount so there was direction
that that Levy amount increased and that
that be reflected in our salaries and
benefits for our classified staff it
sounded like the hope for that would be
to look at efficiencies through the
school district and identify the need
there
and then am I missing something no but I
think again when you look at that Levy
resolution the first one Athletics
co-curricular you know I'd say there an
extra extracurricular activities is
pillar two culture and climate school
resource officers is cultural pillar two
of our strategic plan the salaries and
benefits to recruit and retain
classified staff is pillar one salaries
and benefits to recruit and retain
certified staff is pillar one textbooks
learning materials and staff training
that is also what pillar one of Safety
and Security facilities is the
facilities pillar and bus acquisition is
the transportation pillar so even though
we we have been trying very hard we
started from a point where we started
with a strategic plan we've asked Steffy
which is not what any other school
district does in this state mind you we
took the Strategic plan and she broke
the budget down by the pillars and then
we went back up and looked at the
shortfall and then came back to try to
put together so we the staff
the former superintendent Branham the
leadership team could spend a lot of
hours in reaching out to the community
on that strategic plan
five-year strategic plan and so we are
looking at you know what can help kick
start that in moving that forward
because that would be if we did not vote
for a levy of any sort
and at probably this level or the one
right below it all that work that has
just been done would go out the window
and be a Year's worth of time not spent
well spent a lot of time and hours and
Blood Sweat and Tears
um and that would be my comment on it
but I just want you people to know in
the audience that this is lined up with
a strategic plan and really making it
trying to make it work and keeping the
quantum learning the quantum learning
will be under part of that and keeping
that go and the four-day workload a
school week Stephanie would you mind
through the three options and just
clarify the shortfalls from the state
uh though the 1.4 and then where it will
be on the yes I think the best way to
explain that though would be
um
maybe speaking more to the fact that I
provided the board with a booklet called
the that I titled or labeled a budget
book I think
um
and that includes
both created on a Saturday those budget
books for you and in those budget books
you have a tab
labeled revenue and this Revenue tab
includes our foundation payment
Foundation payment is what the state
provides us for funding so that's our
state revenue again we have three
funding sources or three Revenue sources
that's state local which is our Levy and
federal and our Levy or local control
comprises 33 percent
um with that 4.7 the past audit it
showed that our Levy equated to 31 of
our general operating budget
and so uh I think the best indicator of
where these shortfalls come from would
be the email series that I had emailed
out which is uh
more than willing to post for the public
or to hand that out but in those email
series identified the revenue sources
all revenue sources identified the
expenditures and then where that
shortfall was coming into play and then
in the shortfall language we talked in
those emails I gave you the information
about how that Levy supported those
shortfalls so I can get a little bit
more detail about that but in the
options it doesn't necessarily show
like how that lines out with the
shortfall
for that cut amount
and I guess I wanna I wanna thank
everybody who has communicated with us I
mean we have heard from a lot of people
I mean I haven't been able because I
also regularly work
um so it's on this is my other half of
my this is my other work
um but I I've heard it from a lot of
people and I hear you know I've heard a
lot that want the levy I've always heard
from those who don't want the levy and I
think there was you know one person a
couple one person talked about a food
audit and I think every three years we
do do a food audit we will be doing of
our department we will be doing one
coming up this year I believe some
um and then we do I want you know we are
looking at the junior high obviously
what are the solutions does that mean
because we know that is it's an
expenditure it's a sink ever since I've
been on the board from 2015 it is
something I've looked at and we've
wanted to do but we have to look at it
seriously whatever that decision is what
we have to go through the process that
we need to that's that we are by law
supposed to go through so
um I think those are the things I know
that there's other issues that are
people have brought up
um
I don't think we cannot vote for a levy
it's the amount that we need to decide
on and when I say us I want to put it
out to the public you all deserve the
right to vote on it however it comes out
at the end of the day to me it's the
it's the community that has the right to
vote on it so we just have to decide in
my mind we have to decide what's that
going to look like that we're going to
put out to you well and I was keeping
track of all the emails but I lost track
after 120.
and that was just for the levy and then
I had
less than 15 against the levy that were
emailed in and so again we have to look
at what the community is outpouring to
us and so
I'm definitely in favor of the levy no
we just need to decide what the amount
should be and again the two requests
that I would have which we are meeting
is that we look at the junior high
and that we look at the dollar per
student amount and I think that we've
got those committees going forward in
our strategic
five-year strategic plan
and our workbooks
which actually make it bigger after a
couple of years
[Laughter]
this is part of this is my paper
so
um
I don't um
I guess I'm trying to think of what else
we might need to express I mean I think
we've gone through we've tried to do our
due diligence we've definitely tried to
be look at those numbers look at the
works you know do the work session spend
hours looking at it thanking the staff
for bringing the numbers forward
thanking Steffy for you know punching
spending hours bringing numbers to us
um in fact um I'm sorry but I'm going to
forget if I don't Steffy would you mind
during this session if we could just
Express um one of the teachers shared a
spreadsheet absolutely so we can do them
that's a very good tool that we can all
look at and just get an idea of
when we look at the 5 million and the
4.7 it just gives us a good breakdown
for taxes and I think it's gonna
help
it helped me
with my 30 increase last year what gross
property value did you want me to put in
um let's do the median and then like
maybe 500 000. okay
because that's
and I wonder well she's doing that I
want to comment that I also heard from
people who are not residents but own
property of a Priest Lake who aren't
benefiting from sending their kids here
or whatever but they voted they
expressed their inter you know their
importance of
um funding our schools okay so that's
you know they really felt it was
important to do so
thank you
so that is the median that I received
from the county assessor
and what was the other value that you
wanted oh wait a minute
you have to change the um I have to
explain what no no no you have to change
the total under Levy total I think
judges
oh my God
my bed my bed okay
and then the next number was 500 000. oh
Okay so
how far back do we want to explain the
the rate just just this oh okay sorry
sorry okay so this column e we have the
levy total so uh
the five million dollar Levy 4.7 4.5
gross property value uh this is the
input
so whatever gross property value you
want to look at and then we have our
homeowners exemption uh this was for the
last year in 2023 supposed to be
projected at 150 000 and
therefore the net taxable for property
owner is in column I
and then we have column J representing
the levy amount paid by the property
owner
and the cost per month
associate on your property at 393
thousand dollars you owe 25 a month
correct that is how you read the
spreadsheets yes
for the five million Levy
yeah
yeah the annual amount
and I can we can plug in whatever gross
property value it's a fairly simple
calculation but it gets even five okay
book that looks like five
she said 500 000.
ignore me never
mind
and and note that the homeowner's
exemption is going up to 150 000 for
people connect this here
so that will and then one other thing
that was brought up I think is important
is that there is the
um Sandy or candy circuit breaker the
circuit breaker that for um
for residents who are at least 65 or
older who have a minimum
income or an income of thirty five
thousand dollars
also off of that which I didn't say
earlier if you have any out of pocket
medical they take that medical expense
off that 33.80 870 that comes off
because you're paying the medical bill
so the state the county subtracts that
from that 33
a thousand eight hundred and seventy so
if they have any out-of-pocket medical
which allowed us a soldier people do
um
that comes off and then then the state
reimburses between 250 dollars on your
taxes to fifteen hundred dollars on your
on your tax property taxes
do you have to do it
once a year they come down to senior
citizens and work with the older people
to do it and they will help you okay any
other comments
you want to come do everything
um if we're
gonna
we're deciding are we normally yeah
okay
okay I'm not sure
I said this is it's very hard to decide
on a dollar amount because
for me when I ran for this seat I told
people I would not
have taxation without representation
and
since I got on this board I've asked to
tear this budget apart just just shred
it so that everybody here could really
see what's being spent and where
all of you have a right to that
I mean over the last 10 years we have
pumped 32 plus million dollars into this
community from supplemental or Levy
depending on what term you want to use
and we still have schools that are
crumbling
and we have kids that have a proficiency
rate that is beyond low and I'm not
talking about the isats and I'm not
talking about the graduation rate
because I totally agree with you that is
a problem we still need to take to Boise
we should not as a district have to hunt
down where our students are to find out
if they graduated in order for our
graduation rate to be correct and
unfortunately that's the ridiculous
way that it's run right there
um
you know I don't know if Miss Dodd is
here tonight but I want to thank you for
your really wonderful email you shared a
lot of good information with me
just like everybody else our emails have
blown up
and this has not been a fun process at
all
we've looked at numbers I think to the
point where we're brain dead honestly
and as many people have said I don't
think there's anyone in this room that
is against children and them being able
to truly have a shot at the Moon
they deserve to have the best education
they possibly can we have some amazing
teachers and then we have some teachers
that just come for a couple of years and
they move on that doesn't mean they're
bad teachers it just means that that
does account for our turnover because a
lot of people don't want to listen to
that aspect of it but it makes it hard
on the kids they get adjusted to having
a teacher they really like them they
like to see them in the hallway
I mean it's it's a feel good for them
and I get that because I taught for a
long time and you want the very best for
kids
but
looking at this budget ever since April
of last year I've not gotten a clear
answer on where money really goes
I mean
we spend a hundred thousand dollars just
in the heating utilities of the junior
high every year that's money truly out
the window because they're all single
pain so I'm I'm you know I'm not blowing
anything up there it's it's fat
um and then we have a big District as
far as mileage you're right we don't
have homes in all of those miles so
we're not making stops at all of them
but we do have a big district and we do
have five schools
but you gotta look at
the realistic
aspects in the world right now we got
banks that are folding we've got people
that have stopped with the purchase of
their home or building a home because
they're scared to death these interest
rates are just going Sky High
and you know in in Kootenai they ran
five levees and four crashed and burned
because people said right now let's not
do this we can't afford it we don't know
where where our money you know needs to
be spent and I think everybody here
would agree you do have to look at
putting food on the table for your kids
and utilities and so forth
um
I'm just at a point where I really
I won a forensic audit I want to be sure
that everything you guys are putting
into this is where it's supposed to go
I want people to feel very comfortable
that we're doing the right thing
I mean Susie Leckie wouldn't be still
teaching here if she wasn't dedicated to
wanting the best I mean you go into
Idaho Hills you better step tow because
she's going to be watching where you're
at she's got these kids you know in in a
row she knows how to run that school
but we also can't just be foolish and
say we're just gonna throw something at
it I mean if that was the case and money
worked government would be perfect and
we all know that's exactly not what's
happening
um we seriously have to get rid of the
junior high and I know that it's a icon
to to the community and that doesn't
mean blowing it up or dismantling it it
means we have to release that dinosaur
from our book so that we can move
forward and you know not be just
throwing that money out the window
um
I just
Susan
because you keep throwing that we put 32
million out there
what I figure is we've actually given
the state structure of the formula for
funding education and the fact that they
no longer give us three dollars a
thousand we've actually not we should
have been spending 64 million or 60
million because we basically we have
been always at half of that amount that
we were when we were like a 2006-2007
when they flipped him if we went back if
you know I don't want to share Jared's
because he put a lot of personal
information up there but if you looked
at the mill rate you've got to look at
the flip side we used to get three
dollars a thousand and that in my mind
on a rough average because we're running
out of 1.47 even if it weren't 64
million I bet we would we should have
gotten 50 million dollars into this
community not 32 million
to death you're not getting your best
you're not you're not retaining your
teacher's defend and I totally respect
what you're saying but I'm also thinking
in the the other the flip way is that we
we got shied some money that we probably
should have gotten to keep us running to
the level we wanted to run okay any more
comments but I yeah okay
are you you still got more
no because I could go on all night okay
you got anything to say
um
let the voters take it up they vote one
time everybody accepts it whatever it is
whether it passes or fails
okay that's just in this community's got
you got to start dealing you can't keep
fighting with each other you gotta
understand that we're all trying to do
the right thing yeah and this
this fight is it's great but
there is fiduciary responsibility yes
absolutely
no yeah okay
um
the consideration I got I got something
to say
the consideration of this Levy started
probably last June when the board was
presented with a budget to approve uh
without any prior review we were told to
it had to be approved before the end of
June for state regulations
then we were told we could amend the
budget any time still waiting
this last February we started the
process to consider a levy for the May
elections since we would be going to
taxpayer to ask for funds I thought we
would be giving the budget a serious
look to evaluate the district's
operations to make sure they were
operating in the most efficient way
since past levies were Justified because
of unfunded mandates High Transportation
costs Etc this board has spent hours
pouring over every piece of financial
data provided to us listen to principals
department heads and other people trying
to get a handle what a functioning
budget would look like in the end we
were presented with three Levy options
and now we're looking at
considering taking this to 5 million
being the lowest
as taxpayers what do you get for five
million dollar investment in our
district
um we would increase spending to now if
we go for 5 million to over fourteen
thousand dollars per student
okay
yeah
do the simple math don't interrupt me I
didn't interrupt you
okay fourteen thousand dollars per
student okay
Lake Ponderay spends 10 721
boundary is eleven thousand two hundred
Lakeland is ten thousand five hundred
Coeur d'Alene is eleven thousand Post
Falls it's nine thousand five hundred
and the state Idaho average is nine
thousand the weighted rule average is
nine nine thousand nine hundred thirty
six
if more money spent if if more money
meant better school performance given
the above statistics
one would think we would be leading the
pack but nothing could be further from
the truth we're lasting graduation rates
at 62 percent
we're lasting isats test scores just
over 44 percent
contrast that to Lakeland with a
graduation rate of over 90 percent at a
spending rate of 10 500 per student
Coeur d'Alene has an average of ISAT
stat of ISAT test score of 54 at
spending rate of 11 000. the irony is
the longer a student stays in our
district the worse the score gets
in summary our district spends more than
all other school districts but our last
in graduation and test scores since
2013. again we have spent 32 million
dollars in levies
and all this is what we have the show
for it
okay I've heard from many people in this
District who are fed up as I am
to the senders of the hate males and to
the gentleman who sent me a voicemail
death threat and I turned it over to the
police
I didn't create this mess
and I can't all good conscience pass it
on to the to the taxpayer to continue
funding list
see
and
you understand
I'm going to make a motion to approve
the levy at 4.7 million
okay
because I will say because if we don't
approve anything and that's a minimal
and I understand what you're saying but
I also looked I pulled down the
expenditures for full term Ada
um I looked at what you were saying but
I know that other school districts such
as Genesee at joint Kendrick joint
potlatch
857 with everything added that's in
maintenance and maintenance and
instructions sixteen thousand two
fifteen fourteen thousand one forty six
and this is 2021 number 2020 2021
numbers
um there's a jump and then I also asked
about why was what were some of the
issues that went into our
um why we were so high we tend to have a
more vulnerable population that we have
to have more we potentially have more
classified staff to to support those
um I know that you looked at boundary
County and they have about the same
Transportation just you know changes but
I would say and we have to a city
council person two city council members
here if we don't pass anything this town
the city this area is going to be
devastated and so I'm going to put at
least something out there that says that
I think we can move forward on the
Strategic plan the whole idea of doing
that strategic plan we've never done it
before we were trying to get everything
lined up we were trying to get the whole
thing moving
forward and now to me is like
you've screamed through all this stuff
you screamed through the curves the end
lines that door
and you just put on the brakes you made
a motion for 4.7 is there a second
okay
all those in favor of 4.7 million dollar
Lobby please say aye
aye those opposed
nay
okay but the motion carries
thank you
okay
next on the agenda
um do I hear a motion to point to a
point a negotiator for a separation
agreement
um what's our option uh I'll should I
bring it to the table I'll make a motion
to bring it to the table to appoint a
negotiate negotiator for separation
agreement okay trustee Halls uh mix of
motion
uh Spicer Brown seconds
open for discussion uh this is a new one
for us who do we appoint should this be
an attorney all we're doing is a is a
makeup we're going to form this we're
not talking about the I'm just making a
motion yeah make an emotional make a
motion to a point yes all right
I'll make a motion to a point so oh okay
especially Vice chair Brown second said
to the point who
was you're going to want to appoint a
trustee as the negot negotiation oh oh I
misunderstood that's okay and then it
will get brought back to the board for
final approval okay yes who wants to be
a negotiator someone make a motion to
appoint someone
last rule it was the chair when I was
doing the contract negotiations yes um
do we need do we need I don't know I've
never done this before so either that's
why I'm saying it's new territory okay
so the church
if you feel comfortable doing that I
will appoint the chair chair Rutledge as
the separation agreement negotiation
okay a second I think okay trustee Hall
first uh Vice chairman
Brown second all those in favor say aye
aye those opposed hey no I'm just
kidding um okay
um
no that's fine uh a point negotiator for
interim superintendent contract I will
make a motion to appoint negotiator for
interim superintendent contract okay
trustee brown or twice your brown oh I
mean I'm sorry uh chairman or
trusty Barton seconds
you want to make a motion
um
usually it's
you've got a lot on your plate because
you can we can appoint anyone but it's
usually been the chair
okay fine if you I would make a motion
to appoint
um chair Rutledge as The Negotiator
transform superintendent contract
second second okay trust me Hall um
first and and uh Vice chair Brown second
all those in favor of uh bite or
um to me there's a point negotiator for
interim uh superintendent contract say
aye aye those opposed okay the motion
carries I need a motion to the journey
I'll make a motion to adjourn
[Laughter]
[Music]
this is
thank you